# 15.1 Surround Specification

## Channel order
- Core: L R C LFE BL BR SL SR, HL HR, BtL BtR, HBL HBR HSL HSR
- Extended: WL WR CL CR BC x x x, HHL HHR BtBL BtBR HHBL HHBR x x

Software implementing 15.1 surround MUST implement the core subset. The extended subset is in draft, and is not currently used. It may be used in the future for converting between CBA formats, or OBA interop. Upmixing by a DPL1-like algorithm is allowed for larger spaces & more speakers.

## Angles
- Core: -30 30 0 -150 150 -90 90, -30 30 -30 30 -150 150 -90 90
- Extended: -60 60 -15 15 180 x x x, -30 30 -150 150 -150 150 x x
- Elevation of ELL, Height, Top, Bottom: 0 30 60 30

Speakers in a standard installation are allowed a 10* deviation. Speakers at a cinema are allowed 20* deviation. This is to maximize the height effect. Cinema is defined as >= 30 listeners.

## Speaker Implementation
Speaker implementation is similar to Dolby Atmos for home. You can do:
- standard powered or unpowered speakers
- Upfiring modules
- Speaker with additional upfiring driver
- ### Height:
- on-wall speaker
- ceiling-mounted or in-ceiling speakers
- tallboy speaker (very tall speaker with drivers separated by height)
- For cinema installation, upfiring & tallboy is not practical

## Speaker Angles
This is inspired by the Dolby Atmos cinema specs. The horizontal angle of a speaker SHOULD point at the center of the listening space. For a cinemain addition, the vertical angle SHOULD point at the furtherest column of the listeners, from the speaker. The angle difference of ELL & Height speakers MUST NOT fall below 40*, to maximize the height effect.

## Adaptation
If a 15.1 mix is imported into an app that has a cubular panner, it is allowed to to change the speaker angles so that speakers in 15.1 map exactly to speakers in the target panner.