# Pluraleyes & Syncaila comparison

Introduction
---
Pluraleyes 3.2 & Syncaila 2 are software meant to sync audio from multiple cameras/mics of a single, cohesive event, aka a movie scene shoot.  PE3 is awkward to use, sluggish UI, and sometimes freezes/crashes, but there's not much you can do about it. It (sometimes) works & it's been out for a while. S2 is the competitive newface. AAtranslator & Vordio are DAW/NLE project converters. REAPER is the DAW I use. I wanted to see if they would work outside their intended purposes. TLDR: sometimes.

Features
---
- License: PE3 is trial + paid, S2 is freemium
- Import/export wav, mp3: PE3
- I/e FCP 7 XML: PE3, S2 (but not with XML generated by PE3)
- Rate changes: PE4 (not tested)
- Automatic cutting: S2
- Clears aside non-synced audio: PE3

Case A
---

Let's say you have a situation, you want to dub an episode into another language, but you don't have a M&E track, only the finished dub & finished score pieces. You can just run a whole episode through izotope RX8 MRB & call it a day. It will work. But you generate some large permanent additional files. The aim is to use OTS audio syncing software to save time (place &/ cut the music), as a first step towards re-creating a soundtrack using a project-based method (not audio).

- **Task**: make a BGM project with the score & finished dub. untouched audio.
- PE: FIAL (except for opening & ending music)

- **Task**: as above, but side-only audio.
- PE: FIAL
- S2: 2/6? pieces synced (XML generated by RPR & AAT)

- **Task**: as above, but top&tail only.
- PE: took too long

Commments: PE3 didn't place any score pieces in the 1st 2 tasks. Because there's dialog over the music, and the music is edited shorter. But S2 sometimes did. Using side of mid/side is a crude method of removing dialog so that the software can work better.


Case B
---
Let's say you have a anthology of (audio) clips that you want to find the episode from. And you have both sources. Because PE3 doesn't cut, you will need to cut where you think discontinuities are,

- **Task**: as above
- PE: 5/8 clips matched to episodes (short clips don't work). accurate to 0.2s?
- S2: crash (XML generated by PE)

Shortcomings
---
PE4, Premiere pro, & woowave dreamsync was not tested. Video syncing was not tested.

Conclusion
---
PE & S2 work best with audio that exactly matches (like their intended purpose), not modified/cut. So if you have a case that fits that criteria it should work.
