# Anime Mixes Mixing Notes

## Introduction
Apart from the instrumental house & trance songs, most of the pop-ish songs weren't meant to be joined as they lack large lead sections and an decent range of intensity. Also, the Japanese love their complexity so have tricky chord progressions & key changes. But key changes opens up more possibilities for joins, at the expense of maybe needing to join mid-song. Most of these are available on my [junh1024 YT channel](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCGqlhiQ9Eu-zsIdK_NRecdQ)

## Touhou mix
So my House1 & House2 mixes have some XL project stuff in them, and I have a bunch of XLPS songs that could be used for a new mix. I have 'Multiple Far East' & 'Faith of Shrinemaiden' albums, from Touhou so I could make a Touhou mix. As it turns out, not that many sound 'house', there's some electro & trance. So I joined 4 consecutive tracks from MFE, tracks 6-9. There is a track which has a highpass EQ. That has some small sections of outgoing songs, so that we keep the outgoing song, but not too much of it. With some added MIDI to link it up, it sounds good, but it's short. So I explore other XLPS albums & add Rainfall dance from XL Zone 2 to start it off, and Endless Rain from colore to end. Some QQMT +attacks on Rainfall dance to boost drum&bass. It's still a bit short so I dig some more. RE:collections is an anthology, which has isolated world. It's from East Side Lounge, I notice I'd listened to that on YT, but initially found the songs as lacklustre & bland. So now I get that album, and another one. I tack on isolated world to end it nicely. It's now long enough, and I can compress the two Voyage 1969 versions to be as short as 1 version.

## Key mix
So while I was making my Touhou House mix, I was also joining some mostly Key songs from XLPS at the end of the project. You can think of it as the 'leftovers' from Touhou. But the transitions sound a little worse. So it was sortove made simultaneously as my Touhou mix, but then I put it into its own project when Touhou was almost finished. I want to include a clannad song, so I can post it to the clannad sub, and searching through colis - air of life, I find light colors from tomoyo after. So I use that, but had a hard time joining it so that it sounds good. Cutting the start of 'rain kisses the leaves" (& other songs) helped a bit. Most of the transitions use a similar method of overlaying sections from adjacent songs. For the two sugars > field path transition it is in key (it goes from F# > B), but field path had a Bm sound, so I made a transition with drums & pno midi in B. Sounds a bit awkward tho. I did want to put in my AOLXTR/altair & vega something, but that's already covered by 'twin stars'

## Touhou 2
In Q2 2020, I had filled in the length for my House3 mix with mostly originals, but it wasn't satisfying as a whole due to crap transitions. House4 was a bunch of Outrun 2006/Ridge racer PSP with a few joins, nothing too fantastic. House5 was a bunch of GT4 kicks (a few in Fm)/Ridge racer PSP techno songs + Cykloid from NFS6 to finish it. I was listening to bubblerecords - Reel, and comparing USAKICK!! & XLPS - Rabbit on the moon, and wondered if they might be the same song due to the 636 note sequence. Looking up the info on touhouwiki/vgmdb, it was. Also to note is Biodoll. The groove sounds v.similar to BULLET from GT4K. So my idea was to go BULLET, then Biodoll. That's the 2 songs I would build my mix around.

To make the transition more seamless, I would need to get a church bell SFX like the one from BULLET. I tried looking into extracting NFS5 & NFS3 games, but didn't get very far. So I would need to extract it from BULLET. I considered running it through ML solutions, but luckily, the SFX is ping-pong stereo delay panned so Quikquak mashtactic does an OK job. There's also the stomp SFX, which I replaced with a zeus_crash I think from mousse_t_horny. It's obviously dissimilar, but does the same job.

To start it off, I tried Retrospective Kyoto , which is a house touhou song which I hvan't used before in a mix, but liked to. It has a few breaks where the instruments take a back seat while the drums are emphasized, so I used that part for the transition to BULLET whole overlaying the e.pno from BULLET. I knew it would prolly sound good since overlaying 2 is the basis for my Touhou1 mix. And it did. I also showed Kuzen 神は人の夢のために, which he liked due to the string motifs & key changes. So I thought it would be a good piece to end the mix. But joining it directly to the end of Biodoll sounds a bit strange, also the mix is still a bit too short @23mins-ish. Biodoll needs extensive treatment like QQMT , EQ , and disperser all to add bass impact since it's very brickwalled, to match the bass punch of BULLET, otherwise it sound very weak. Some of the songs are long, like 7m, but I know I will be cutting them down later, but to a yet-unknown length since I'm waiting for the last songs to be fitted before I make decisions on song lengths.

So it's time to look for more songs. I found Blue State on RE:COLLECTIONS, source album Blue Album. It is a lucky coincidence that it fits at the end of Biodoll, but I need to force the key down at the end since it would otherwise go up. The transition overlays a bell synth from Biodoll & an introduction from Blue State, but BS sounds off-time due to double drums or sth. I tried fiddling with VSTis for a bit but they sound crap, so I just left the original audio there. I later find out that there's a similar section earlier in Biodoll with lowered pitch so I use that instead for HQ & lower CPU. At this point, the mix is length-complete, but 30m is too long. So I cut it down. Cutting Biodoll is easy, just nix the last chorus, but BULLET is hard since there's a variation every 8 bars or so but cutting it on /8 might be a bit abrupt. Basically every song needs its own track for its own FX/settings. I implemented CPU gating on silence & amount finally works for phase modes, for FFT Stereo tool for this mix. Perhaps it was inspired by TB_voicepitcher's CPU gating. since I want to reduce width of some songs with phase modes.

## Touhou 3

While browsing the East Side Lounge, I initially thought it was an eh album, but after I got ones released a few years a few years later, I realized it's not that bad as later albums change the style to a more mellow general doujin electronic style & add vox, which is what I'm not looking for (I'm looking for house/techno/trance) so I only get half a good song per album instead of 1-2. I also initially thought this was an eh album since I only liked isolated world, since I'm familiar with it for 8? years since it was on the RE:COLLECTIONS anthology. But after a few more listens, I liked 'Road to the sun' & surround me with dolls. unfortunately, SMWD would be too slow to stick in this mix as it's too slow. I was also listening to the Blue Album & I quite liked Feel The Air. I would try to join it with Sealed Lord since it's in the same key, but there's a few issues with that. Basically Sealed Lord tried to take over & I end up cutting the intro of Feel The Air so that it transitions well, so I did the reverse since I like FTA better, and overlayed the synth intro of SL to make it seem like 1 song. Really, it's not much longer but now it's more like to increase song count. I also notice both share a similar 623532 arp & wondered if they're the same song. They're not. I elevated the pitch of FTA at the last chorus since it might sound better & it'll flow to into 'Road to the sun' better.

I also had Yearn originally in the mix, but I deleted it since it's a different remix of the same source song as FTA. I also had a bunch of songs that are harmonically related in another, Random Navigation, Newshound, When they think of there, and it's compatible with RTTS, so I added them in. Photosynthesis @ end is space-filler. RN & N sound bad, they're really space-filler. So I tried to find Em songs from XLPS to replace RN with. Turns out there's not many. So I left it. I did the joins & let it sit for weeks. After working on other dnb/racing mixes, I came back to this & revised the transitions & song lengths. Some xsitions use less layers, sounds less conflicting. And some more techniques like echo. Then I released it. Afterwards, I had some regerts since I don't like the middle 2 songs. So I hide the mix on YT.


## Touhou 5
special, but not special is a bit different, you prolly can't transition into it nicely w/o chopping (a lot off) the short song so I left it at the start. The fox and grapes can join nicely afterwards. I also had a Trad & After the incident in compatible keys, but Trad C#m isn't compat w/ FATG Cm. So I tried to go up a key in FATG, and it works. There's a bit @ the end of the chorus that goes to C#m, so you can nicely shift up 1 after that & it sounds very natural. Now I can join Trad & ATI. emotion of the forest @ end is space-filler. But the mix is short @ 19'44. I left it for a while.

After I released my To3, I was unhappy about the middle bit. So WTToT & P could go in another mix. SHNC was a loose song at the end. By chance, it goes from F#m to Gm, so I can connect it to ATI & WTToT. I'm not making too many changes to the WTToT xsition, WTToT must start there. I recreated the Pno, Bass from WTToT in MIDI, and had a drum loop form SHNC. I then did a triangle synth with a oboe to match the synth from SHNC. I previously added a cymbal to the Photosynthesis xsition as a distraction otherwise it wound sound a bit odd w/loss of energy. The middle of ATI 13'30" is the climax so the whole mix should be around 27', so I did some cutting after that point. I paid special attention to make the bass level more consistent over the mix, turning it down by 1-2dB, and boosting some via EQ & mashtactic. Late in the process, I changed the SR from 48k > 44k. This broke the PDC of mashtactic so I had to insert a time_adjustment to nudhe it by -2048sa which I hope is right. MT was used to extract the synth from FATG, drumextract & SpiralCM was used to find the notes of the WTToT pno. I did some reorganization to cut it down from 13t to 11t. The title was originally "special fox", but there's no fox in any of the TH games of this mix. SHNC is the highlight, but not a major part of the mix so not "special fairy". So I settled on the 1st song name. Note that this mix starts on Gm, goes though some st & 5ths shifts, then ends on Gm.

## Touhou 4
28/07/2020
I originally had 4 songs joined, Ghost Rain, Nuclear steam, Chrome Drive, Cykloid. Chrome drive didn't go that well into Cykloid. Chrome drive &/ Cykloid from my fialed House 4/5 mix. While I was listening to Blue Album, I liked The Last Time, and the keys are compatible with CD & C so I put it there. It also does well as a climax for the mix since CD doesn't really have a strong motif. I wanted to put Rabbit on the Moon by XLPS since the 2nd track on the pastry album is a remix of the same song (but a different genre), but the keys didn't fit.

I forced GR down so it joins with NS. I made a saw bass MIDI clip since using a GR clip would have double drums = conflict. Took me a while to find the best 8ve-ing/shifts so that it sounds good, also 10c down.

The last transition TLT > C sounds a bit bad. Revisiting this in Feb 2021, I know what to do. The bass in C is so powerful, so I turn it down with EQ. I did a lot of fiddling with the outpoint of TLT & the in point of C. I ended TLT later, and had C start earlier so that the strings come in for that broadband energy. It still sounds a bit strange, but hopefully a bit less. I compare with the previous ver of the proj, and bring back the noise sweep from the end. 

I target -18 LUFS as usual, but there's quite a range of measured LUFS over the songs in their loudest sections from -1 - +3.5. I had a look at the FFT in Izotope insight, and through some earbuds which boost bass (not even my usual Panasonic RP-HT161 responds to sub bass) and sure enough, the bass was pretty strong in some songs, noticably CD. I start applying EQ to more songs, EQ low shelf cut of 100 or 250 by -2.5 or -5dB, aiming for a max of -27dB for the bass in FFT. That made the LUFS more even. TLT has the loudest bass, and is already at -27 for bass, but you can't hear it since the midrange is so busy. So I apply some disperser. 

The FX is about finished, time to shorten. I can cut the outro of TLT & Ghost rain easily to move the mix along quicker. It's hard to cut Nuclear Steam since almost all the sections are unique and it's got lots of progressive building up that to cut it would make the progression noticable abrupt. I could only cut a small bit at the end. Named Race Queen due to songs form Racing games.

## Touhou 6
I think I made To4 & To6 in a hurry while I was trying to listen to them, make 8olei xsitions quickly, etc. Originally it might've been TT, OIH, ATS, FUTK & then I added BoT to the start. After I addded BoT, it was about 29m, so I did some cutting to being each song to a fair & reasonable length. Now it's about 25m. In Feb 2021, I cut out the wubstep section from FUTK since the ostinato motif is obscured, while a distorted synth plays. After my To4 & inspecting the LUFS for the songs, I now know why they differ in values. Different levels of bass. I decide on a target of -25dB for the bass.

I re-add the  wubstep section from FUTK since it's some added variety to catch your attention. The transition from TT>OIH, there is some pitching up & down with OIH, when paired with TT, sounds dissonant. I thought of using zplane repitch, but there's no need. I can just use clip pitch automation for the 1st bend. The 2nd bend I need to pitch TT up instead since the lead saw comes in OIH.

## Orchestral 2
So AC4 Blockade & Megalith are in the same key, but vastly different BPM so they sound awkward when joined. I was going over the RE-RESIST album recently & I noticed that Invitation to the nihility was in a similar style/BPM/key as Blockade. I tried joining them together & they fit OK (with a house-style overlapping join). 1 thing to care about is EQ during the transition, and EQ across the tracks. ITTN needs a high cut, to match Megalith. Megalith needs a bass & drum boost to match ITTN. I think Megalith also had live recorded elements as there's uneven tempo across the song, like both clips need stretching to match the BPM of the Megalith intro. I also wanted to extend the mix with more songs. I started looking at the Classics boxset from Hybrid, since they do a similar orchestral-electronic style. I know Dreaming Your Dreams, it's good, but it's too fast. There's In Good We Trust which is a similar BPM, but it's slightly lacking drums, rather short, & it feels a bit too dark. If you know any songs in a similar style, key (D or Dm), & BPM (75 +- 10%), lemme know & I might extend it

## Anime Trance 2
I had a few EXIT TRANCE songs since I collect remixes of anime (themes) I watch. I also wondered whether I could make a trance version of my rock mix. C3 & light prayer is there, and I expected some yanaginagi songs in trance, but there aren't any. There's also not many Bakemon themes after OP3 in trance. There's some pokemon trance, but not kaze no message. So I did a bunch of joins,

magic number>battle frontier would be reserved for Trance4. I had been wanting to use magic number for a while, I tried to use it in the past as rear material for my surround upscale of the original version, but removed it in the end.

After being semi-familiar with C3, I'm expecting a bit of piano decorations in the verse of C3, but there aren't any in the trance version, so I add some MIDI from tosa's MIDI. But not too much as to muddy the mix. Mainly high notes. They did have some piano in the bridge, but it's not very loud so the MIDI reinforces it.

light prayer > rock over japan is a bum transition so that I can stick in the rock over japan > tomare join, which is good. There is a perfect area complete, and it's in D# too (which I also used in the end of my rock mix), so I can join that to tomare. There is a secret base also in D#, and that does have an ending, so I join that, and end the mix. It takes a while to end, so I cut it short to give it greater impact.

For the beginning, I used to have MPD OP2 (shonen), it's an OK join, but it's not much of a proper start. I tried joining it with the original version in my head, and it didn't sound good in my head, nor realized. But I know that joining the original start with the trance C3 would sound good, and I was mostly right, so I start with that.

## Anime Trance 4
Nothing wrong with the song selection (I select songs I know/like). The problem with EXIT TRANCE CDs is that they're pre-mixed, slight lack of medium/low energy sections & already done transition sections, and a fast transition style, so the only thing I can do is match that. So to cut it shorter, do another fast transition, & hope it works. It works about half the time. I could make 1-2 more mixes, but I'm limited since a lack of songs with endings since it's pre-mixed, most song don't have endings.

By the time I finished the initial draft, it was around 27", decent length. So I can slow the BPM from 180 to 170 to extend it. It seemed a bit slow @ 1st, but I got used to it. I scrubbed through the mix quickly, but then I found out some songs had annoying trance synth solos in them, so I did a more careful scrub, and cut those out. The level of perceived high frequencies between songs varied, so I had different tracks to boost, or cut them via EQ. Hare Yukai was only 1 of the songs that sounded like it had an ending near the end so I ended on that, and applied some reverb to slightly extend the ending.



## MSLN-rewrite 
I've been working on my MSLN-rewrite (extended) mix on & off since mid-2019, and it still isn't finished. I had groups of 2-3 songs joined, but nothing long enough for a finished mix. In late 2020, I decided to sort my Traktor song collection by BPM, and found a few songs to add. Then there seemed to be 2 groups of songs with compatible keys, so after some editing, I spun them off into their separate mixes. Since HNP is in F#, songs so join with it seem to be hard to find since songs in # keys are a bit rarer. Also, HNP ends with strings so I need to find a song with a similar kind of wideband energy. I tried koibumi (with toki no kakera afterwards) , didn't go well. "Niji ga umareta hi" joined well, but I don't like the opera-style vox.

## Orchestral 3
I had already used orchestral ID 1 & 2 starting from end of 2019, mid 2020. So I need to continue from 3 even though this group of mixes is older. Like my Touhou convention, odd IDs = slow, even = fast. I guessed which songs would join well together & went from there. There is some MIDI going from "secret of my heart" to "Shadow & light". Overall, this mix sounds OK. Now that the stereo mix is done, it's time to upscale the songs to surround, using V+I & spleeter.

## Orchestral 5
I've been a bit indecisive about putting "Mishiranu Kuni no Tripper" in a mix. Since it's got a very distinctive retro sound (before that rubbish vaporwave trend). Due to the ritard at the end of "Mamoru beki mono", going to "tengoku no kioku" sounds a bit bad. By chance, most of the songs in this mix have a surround ver, but TNK is quite bad, might as well upscale it to surround from spleeter. 
This mix is a bit worse than O3.

## Fast Pop 2 
In January 2021 I revised this mix. I tweaked the V/I balance of MPD OP2. Due to 2011 Sky song sounding bad at the end, I restored "Kimi no shiranai Monogatari". But since the quiet section would be before the middle, I have to add on a song at the start to balance it. I got "Advance Adventure" from my Fast Pop 1 project. I tested a few inpoints for "Platina", and at the beginning sounds best (as instro) + the vox from AA. Now that the mix is balanced, it's now >30m, so I need to cut it. I'm noticing KNSM is quite long so I cut it. The inpoint is now something like V2. V2 is the most familiar verse since the anime ED starts that way. It is now 28m now. Coincidentally, it now ends on the sane key as it starts with 2001 Sky at the end.

## Fast Pop 1
I started this mix in late 2019 after finishing my rock mix. "Dramatic Carpet Ride" & "Yukitoki" are bot around 165bpm & would suit the beginning of a mix. So I did. DCR sounds a bit better slowed down anyway. There's a break after the intro of Yukitoki so that's the transition for DCR > Yukitoki. Yukitoki has a xfade in the middle to eliminate partial bars to make the mix easier to manage so that the bar ruler is almost always right. I originally had "Advance Adventure" after Yukitoki. I needed to pitch AA down so that the key fits, but it was a bit awkward. In 2021 it is substituted with Kazeyomi Ribbon. AA, like luminous, was exported in 71 for more flexibility/control over A/I in surround.

I sorted songs in Traktor and found a bunch of songs. "Lonely rolling star" is in the same key as "Kaze no message", but since it's in ambisonics (regerts), it has a different "sound" than the rest of the songs. 

"Bright stream" was a song that got kicked out from my Rock mix due to being too busy-sounding when sped-up (someone noticed), so it is in this lower 165b mix. It joins well with "Authentic symphony", another song that was kicked out (maybe from FP2 or rock). Going from BS to AUS, I tested a few different places to join ranging from V1, V2, etc. In the end, I settled on the chorus since it maintains a similar energy/sound at the transition point. Then cuts to V1. AUS joins well with "Magic number", minimal editing there. "Starlog" is also a similar tempo, but it's in a different key' But it has transition & sections which change key. So putting those there would be distraction enough to sound smooth. I originally had a transition section of pre-chorus1 (which I'm used to) then C1, but I could also use pre-V2 then V2 which sounds better. Or I could also go PC1 then V2 (which sounds awkward). "Starlog" has this section in a different key after C2 with lyrics. It sounds quite out of place so I removed it.
