# Anime Remixes Mixing Notes

## Kousaki, Sagisu - Suzumiya Haruhi no Tegakari-Decisive Battle

While collecting the sources for my yet-unfinished "Tutorial Mission 01" thing and trying to make more stuff for it, I realized that this is a mashup in itself. Originally I was thinking of using a timpani loop from "Decisive Battle" and thinking of different pitching workflows, but then it's just simpler & more flexible to just use MIDI. I played timpani in middle school (but I got usurped in HS), so I know that you get a limited # notes cuz you usually only have 2-4 timpani. The less the better. Trying to keep my limited notes of 2 in tune. Sometimes it sounds a bit bad. The 12+4 rhythm is sometimes heard in orchestral pieces. I added in some snare too, to keep with with the increasing intensity in the original. For Poulenc, ReaVerberate inline works cuz there's only 1 added instrument, but for this, I used a reverb bus. Again, a bit of accenting/dynamics helps to give life to the snare.  ---Traktor reported a fractional BPM, which didn't work as a cBPM. What did work is 140 for bars 1-8 & 138 thereafter. But it's still a bit off. Whether it sounds in time depends on how you feel. e.g, 1st time you hear it it might not, but after you Stockholm yourself for a 2nd time, it might. You can hear the strings being a bit out of tune on the higher notes & out of time at the end (or maybe it's the hall reflections?). This probably means they're real, live strings.

## Haru no Gogo w/Violin

I wanted to add a melody over it, after some ideas in my head & thinking about counterpoint. The instrument in my head was violin. After I add the violin, it has problems blending in. I also had done a ML vox extraction in the past. I doubled the vox with the ML vox so it's slightly louder, and sidechained a EQ so that it turns down the mids on the instruments when the violin is active. I revised my melody several times, to avoid hitting the same note as the melody, cuz that sounds bad. For the 1st verse, I tried to stay mostly above the voice. For the 2nd verse, I did an alt/variation to try to stay below the vox, but them smoothly go above for the pre-chorus. Choruses are the same. At the end, there's a bend upwards. I got the idea from NGE - Yokan.

## Lucky Star-Katamari Exotica

During July 2020, I was listening to the Lucky Star Remix albums. The Glucosa mix stands out as being different cuz it barely resembles the original Motekke Sailor Fuku, no-one sings the melody. Rather, there's some voice clips over some mellow lo-fi beats. I was also listening to some Katamari albums, collecting songs for my electro, house, and dance/909 mixes. I wake up one morning with a song in my head. It's Katamari, and maybe it's cosmic lounge, maybe something from novita. I search up cosmic & lounge, nope, wrong song, but it is on novita. It's Katamari Exotica. Maybe the next day I realise it would go well under Lucky Star voice clips. I was wanting to avoid using ML for this, I had in mind Kagami's discussing about the grocery store in ep17, but that's not a lot of talk, and not very interesting/expressive as the acting on Glucosa mix so ML it is. Also, Glucosa is chill at x bpm, but Exotica is fast at 14 bpm, so I had to do a compromise bpm to try to keep the chill feeling while not too many artefacts. Also, I did some variable stretching at the start to have sections start on 8-bar edges for easier cutting.

## Irony-BDD
Original finished Aug '17-ish. There was feedback in the past about how it was out of key at times. I revised it shortly after, but pitchshifting sounded awkward. My Nexus-Mutsuki mashup didn't do so well on r/Oreimo, but there was a positive comment which encouraged me to revisit this for a post. I finished replicating the pitch shifts for the rest of the song & infrastructure upgrades. I was about to call it finished, but then I realized it missing a bit of contrast due to the missing bridge. I cautiously extended the song.

The vox needs some shifting to appear in key for the instro bridge. But it might be a 5th out. Copying a technique from my SOMH-Haruna mashup, I make another track for a few small sections that need zplane retune. The instro is shortened at the final chorus & ending to avoid boring repitition. The ending chords are off key, so I shift them, but only some of them, again, to create variety & avoid much repitition. There is a pre-final-chorus bit that I could fill in w/vox since I filled that part earlier in the song, but I feel it could use a break in energy.