# Anime Upmixes Mixing Notes

## Beautiful Sentance
I decided to upmix the song since it was exciting and I had some vocal painting ideas. In the past I had done vocal step panning covering water 360° from back left left right hand back right. In here I decided to do vocal step panning through the front only to make it less uncomfortable. This necessitates the use of the wide and centre front channels. Although the angle of the centre front speakers means that spreading for sauces isn't completely even it means that the panning is more comfortable since it's front biased. I reduce the vocoder a bit for better balance and again during the ending since it's very busy. Due to the busy electronic nature of this track I think it's acceptable to have the piano at the back to fill activity. Using a surround up mixer the lead vocals occupy the narrow section of the image and the vocoder occupies the wide section of the image. Since I am already using the wide channels for vocoder panning I decided to fill the Peter buy upscaling the lead vocals again using the rear output of a 5.1 up mixer into the wide channels. TODO
 
 
## Kibou no Tsubomi
I was introduced to this song by someone who said it was an epic song. It's a fast and high-energy song similar to beautiful sentence from Trinity Seven. There were few things that I wanted to do with this song. 1. Slow it down because it's too fast and 2. add more vocal Harmony in the chorus since I think it's a composition error. There is also no instrumental available. All of these things are simple in isolation but combined, pose issues. Adding vocal harmony in the chorus is simple. All that was needed is to add a pitch shifter to the rear channels after surround up-mixing and add automation.  There is no instrumental to help make a surround version but there are multiple vocal versions.

For these type of projects where I want to slow it Down I usually use varispeed to slow it down first then use digital pitch shifting afterwards. A side chain was created by subtracting both vocal versions leaving behind vocals of both. Initially I tried subtracting the side chain from the main using FFT to to separate the song into instrumental and vocals then pitch-shifting later. This works but I later found out that it makes lots of artefacts due to different decision making in the pitch shifter in the instrumental vs the vocals. I then moved the pitch-shifting to before separation and that resulted in much less artefacts and a more punchier instrumental. I also applied some linear EQ to the instrumental to carve out a bit of space for the vocals and restore some high frequencies due to pitch shifting.

There was some drum and piano leaking into the vocals and rear speakers so I used spleeter to make those stems. spleeter also made a vocal stem but that turned out worse than my own FFT efforts. 

# Super Super Love Days

I decided to do a surround up mix of super love since the guitars in the song sounded wide and ambient. Despite g audiolab supporting guitar separation it's didn't really pick up all the guitar in the guitar track so I rerun it with only 5 stem separation. Now the guitars are in the others track including the flute or recorder.. I need to use all the stems from g audiolab since they only offer Lossy MP3 Ford download. Set the guitar butter the side I can just up mix the others track-23 channels and the flute will be in the centre only. Unfortunately there's some flute reverb leaking and acoustic 4 steel guitar so I need to use real fur 2 compress the flute and guitar out into a difference for the front channels. G audiolab also did not pick up or the backup vocals. This is no problem for the surround on makes since it will just be moved around. But for my mashup at will cause missing vocals and might be a problem. TODO