# Anime Mashups Mixing Notes

##  Poulenc, Philharmonia - Piano Concerto Double - 1: Allegro ma non troppo

I've been wanting to do this for years. I got the idea while I'm taking a walk after breakfast, I usually try to play this song then. After knowing this song since c.2006, & listening for years, I'm sort of half-expecting some snare drum, there's probably some timpani &/ bass drum somewhere in this or his previous Piano concerto. So I started this project in 2014, setting the project BPM to a constant, and just playing along. Resuming work in 2020, I realize the proper way is to do a tempo map. This is handy cuz I can just make a drum section then loop that. But the map is very sensitive as if you change the tempo of a marker, everything else gets shifted, and if you set a marker with a partial bar before & you change the tempo, it gets moved. And then I figured 2/4 is a better solution than partial bars. It's also amazing (and annoying) that the tempo changes so often, and sometimes every beat - I find it hard to make a tempo change after some quick ritardando. Also, I try not to make a tempo marker too often (but sometimes every bar), and only at integer tempos, and as a result, drums may be a bit off-time.---Some accenting/dynamics really helps with the drum loop to prevent it sounding too robotic. The drumroll is really just fast notes. With no dynamics, there's the machine-gun effect. So I drew in some velocity curves. There's a long piano solo in the middle. I could set it to cBPM & be done, but the proper way is to do more tempo markers. Spending lots of time to make markers, where there will be no midi, is the correct, but tedious way, will be useful if you print sheet music. Also some decisions RE: what notes to put for the drum & where. Trying to interpret the call/answer, music intensity, instrumentation, on-beat vs off-beat, consistency, variation. You need to try things, to see what sounds good. The hardest decisions were at the end while rather short, but important, as it ends the intense tutti bit. Cuz I'd already done some off-beat it sounds nice, then thinking of how to not end awkwardly, so I continued with off-beat & made something up.
