# Touhou Mixes Mixing Notes

## Touhou mix
So my House1 & House2 mixes have some XL project stuff in them, and I have a bunch of XLPS songs that could be used for a new mix. I have 'Multiple Far East' & 'Faith of Shrinemaiden' albums, from Touhou so I could make a Touhou mix. As it turns out, not that many sound 'house', there's some electro & trance. So I joined 4 consecutive tracks from MFE, tracks 6-9. There is a track which has a highpass EQ. That has some small sections of outgoing songs, so that we keep the outgoing song, but not too much of it. With some added MIDI to link it up, it sounds good, but it's short. So I explore other XLPS albums & add Rainfall dance from XL Zone 2 to start it off, and Endless Rain from colore to end. Some QQMT +attacks on Rainfall dance to boost drum&bass. It's still a bit short so I dig some more. RE:collections is an anthology, which has isolated world. It's from East Side Lounge, I notice I'd listened to that on YT, but initially found the songs as lacklustre & bland. So now I get that album, and another one. I tack on isolated world to end it nicely. It's now long enough, and I can compress the two Voyage 1969 versions to be as short as 1 version.



## Touhou 2
In Q2 2020, I had filled in the length for my House3 mix with mostly originals, but it wasn't satisfying as a whole due to crap transitions. House4 was a bunch of Outrun 2006/Ridge racer PSP with a few joins, nothing too fantastic. House5 was a bunch of GT4 kicks (a few in Fm)/Ridge racer PSP techno songs + Cykloid from NFS6 to finish it. I was listening to bubblerecords - Reel, and comparing USAKICK!! & XLPS - Rabbit on the moon, and wondered if they might be the same song due to the 636 note sequence. Looking up the info on touhouwiki/vgmdb, it was. Also to note is Biodoll. The groove sounds v.similar to BULLET from GT4K. So my idea was to go BULLET, then Biodoll. That's the 2 songs I would build my mix around.

To make the transition more seamless, I would need to get a church bell SFX like the one from BULLET. I tried looking into extracting NFS5 & NFS3 games, but didn't get very far. So I would need to extract it from BULLET. I considered running it through ML solutions, but luckily, the SFX is ping-pong stereo delay panned so Quikquak mashtactic does an OK job. There's also the stomp SFX, which I replaced with a zeus_crash I think from mousse_t_horny. It's obviously dissimilar, but does the same job.

To start it off, I tried Retrospective Kyoto , which is a house touhou song which I hvan't used before in a mix, but liked to. It has a few breaks where the instruments take a back seat while the drums are emphasized, so I used that part for the transition to BULLET whole overlaying the e.pno from BULLET. I knew it would prolly sound good since overlaying 2 is the basis for my Touhou1 mix. And it did. I also showed Kuzen 神は人の夢のために, which he liked due to the string motifs & key changes. So I thought it would be a good piece to end the mix. But joining it directly to the end of Biodoll sounds a bit strange, also the mix is still a bit too short @23mins-ish. Biodoll needs extensive treatment like QQMT , EQ , and disperser all to add bass impact since it's very brickwalled, to match the bass punch of BULLET, otherwise it sound very weak. Some of the songs are long, like 7m, but I know I will be cutting them down later, but to a yet-unknown length since I'm waiting for the last songs to be fitted before I make decisions on song lengths.

So it's time to look for more songs. I found Blue State on RE:COLLECTIONS, source album Blue Album. It is a lucky coincidence that it fits at the end of Biodoll, but I need to force the key down at the end since it would otherwise go up. The transition overlays a bell synth from Biodoll & an introduction from Blue State, but BS sounds off-time due to double drums or sth. I tried fiddling with VSTis for a bit but they sound crap, so I just left the original audio there. I later find out that there's a similar section earlier in Biodoll with lowered pitch so I use that instead for HQ & lower CPU. At this point, the mix is length-complete, but 30m is too long. So I cut it down. Cutting Biodoll is easy, just nix the last chorus, but BULLET is hard since there's a variation every 8 bars or so but cutting it on /8 might be a bit abrupt. Basically every song needs its own track for its own FX/settings. I implemented CPU gating on silence & amount finally works for phase modes, for FFT Stereo tool for this mix. Perhaps it was inspired by TB_voicepitcher's CPU gating. since I want to reduce width of some songs with phase modes.

At one point, I wanted to add Death of Aase from G&A Classical Trance, but couldn't fit it in at the end.

## Touhou 3

While browsing the East Side Lounge, I initially thought it was an eh album, but after I got ones released a few years a few years later, I realized it's not that bad as later albums change the style to a more mellow general doujin electronic style & add vox, which is what I'm not looking for (I'm looking for house/techno/trance) so I only get half a good song per album instead of 1-2. I also initially thought this was an eh album since I only liked isolated world, since I'm familiar with it for 8? years since it was on the RE:COLLECTIONS anthology. But after a few more listens, I liked 'Road to the sun' & surround me with dolls. unfortunately, SMWD would be too slow to stick in this mix as it's too slow. I was also listening to the Blue Album & I quite liked Feel The Air. I would try to join it with Sealed Lord since it's in the same key, but there's a few issues with that. Basically Sealed Lord tried to take over & I end up cutting the intro of Feel The Air so that it transitions well, so I did the reverse since I like FTA better, and overlayed the synth intro of SL to make it seem like 1 song. Really, it's not much longer but now it's more like to increase song count. I also notice both share a similar 623532 arp & wondered if they're the same song. They're not. I elevated the pitch of FTA at the last chorus since it might sound better & it'll flow to into 'Road to the sun' better.

I also had Yearn originally in the mix, but I deleted it since it's a different remix of the same source song as FTA. I also had a bunch of songs that are harmonically related in another, Random Navigation, Newshound, When they think of there, and it's compatible with RTTS, so I added them in. Photosynthesis @ end is space-filler. RN & N sound bad, they're really space-filler. So I tried to find Em songs from XLPS to replace RN with. Turns out there's not many. So I left it. I did the joins & let it sit for weeks. After working on other dnb/racing mixes, I came back to this & revised the transitions & song lengths. Some xsitions use less layers, sounds less conflicting. And some more techniques like echo. Then I released it. Afterwards, I had some regerts since I don't like the middle 2 songs. So I hide the mix on YT.


## Touhou 5
special, but not special is a bit different, you prolly can't transition into it nicely w/o chopping (a lot off) the short song so I left it at the start. The fox and grapes can join nicely afterwards. I also had a Trad & After the incident in compatible keys, but Trad C#m isn't compat w/ FATG Cm. So I tried to go up a key in FATG, and it works. There's a bit @ the end of the chorus that goes to C#m, so you can nicely shift up 1 after that & it sounds very natural. Now I can join Trad & ATI. emotion of the forest @ end is space-filler. But the mix is short @ 19'44. I left it for a while.

After I released my To3, I was unhappy about the middle bit. So WTToT & P could go in another mix. SHNC was a loose song at the end. By chance, it goes from F#m to Gm, so I can connect it to ATI & WTToT. I'm not making too many changes to the WTToT xsition, WTToT must start there. I recreated the Pno, Bass from WTToT in MIDI, and had a drum loop form SHNC. I then did a triangle synth with a oboe to match the synth from SHNC. I previously added a cymbal to the Photosynthesis xsition as a distraction otherwise it wound sound a bit odd w/loss of energy. The middle of ATI 13'30" is the climax so the whole mix should be around 27', so I did some cutting after that point. I paid special attention to make the bass level more consistent over the mix, turning it down by 1-2dB, and boosting some via EQ & mashtactic. Late in the process, I changed the SR from 48k > 44k. This broke the PDC of mashtactic so I had to insert a time_adjustment to nudhe it by -2048sa which I hope is right. MT was used to extract the synth from FATG, drumextract & SpiralCM was used to find the notes of the WTToT pno. I did some reorganization to cut it down from 13t to 11t. The title was originally "special fox", but there's no fox in any of the TH games of this mix. SHNC is the highlight, but not a major part of the mix so not "special fairy". So I settled on the 1st song name. Note that this mix starts on Gm, goes though some st & 5ths shifts, then ends on Gm.

## Touhou 4
28/07/2020
I originally had 4 songs joined, Ghost Rain, Nuclear steam, Chrome Drive, Cykloid. Chrome drive didn't go that well into Cykloid. Chrome drive &/ Cykloid from my fialed House 4/5 mix. While I was listening to Blue Album, I liked The Last Time, and the keys are compatible with CD & C so I put it there. It also does well as a climax for the mix since CD doesn't really have a strong motif. I wanted to put Rabbit on the Moon by XLPS since the 2nd track on the pastry album is a remix of the same song (but a different genre), but the keys didn't fit.

I forced GR down so it joins with NS. I made a saw bass MIDI clip since using a GR clip would have double drums = conflict. Took me a while to find the best 8ve-ing/shifts so that it sounds good, also 10c down.

The last transition TLT > C sounds a bit bad. Revisiting this in Feb 2021, I know what to do. The bass in C is so powerful, so I turn it down with EQ. I did a lot of fiddling with the outpoint of TLT & the in point of C. I ended TLT later, and had C start earlier so that the strings come in for that broadband energy. It still sounds a bit strange, but hopefully a bit less. I compare with the previous ver of the proj, and bring back the noise sweep from the end. 

I target -18 LUFS as usual, but there's quite a range of measured LUFS over the songs in their loudest sections from -1 - +3.5. I had a look at the FFT in Izotope insight, and through some earbuds which boost bass (not even my usual Panasonic RP-HT161 responds to sub bass) and sure enough, the bass was pretty strong in some songs, noticably CD. I start applying EQ to more songs, EQ low shelf cut of 100 or 250 by -2.5 or -5dB, aiming for a max of -27dB for the bass in FFT. That made the LUFS more even. TLT has the loudest bass, and is already at -27 for bass, but you can't hear it since the midrange is so busy. So I apply some disperser. 

The FX is about finished, time to shorten. I can cut the outro of TLT & Ghost rain easily to move the mix along quicker. It's hard to cut Nuclear Steam since almost all the sections are unique and it's got lots of progressive building up that to cut it would make the progression noticable abrupt. I could only cut a small bit at the end. Named Race Queen due to songs form Racing games.

## Touhou 6
I think I made To4 & To6 in a hurry while I was trying to listen to them, make 8olei xsitions quickly, etc. Originally it might've been TT, OIH, ATS, FUTK & then I added BoT to the start. After I addded BoT, it was about 29m, so I did some cutting to being each song to a fair & reasonable length. Now it's about 25m. In Feb 2021, I cut out the wubstep section from FUTK since the ostinato motif is obscured, while a distorted synth plays. After my To4 & inspecting the LUFS for the songs, I now know why they differ in values. Different levels of bass. I decide on a target of -25dB for the bass.

The transition from TT>OIH, there is some pitching up & down with OIH, when paired with TT, sounds dissonant. I thought of using zplane repitch, but there's no need. I can just use clip pitch automation for the 1st bend. The 2nd bend I need to pitch TT up instead since the lead saw comes in OIH.

After discussing with a mastering engineer, it was implied my black headphones had sufficient high-frequency reproduction compared to my other earbuds. So I briefly skimmed through my mix using those, and the hihats on BOT were too loud so I turned them down.

Consistent Loudness across songs is tricky since there are commercial soundtracks mixed with indie releases, and bass impacts LUFS measurements. I set a target of -18.5 for mid-intensity sections, and high sections shouldn't go above -17. My black headphones can't monitor bass well so I use my pink earbuds. Skimming through the song I notice at the sacrifice and fighting under the knuckle are a bit lacking advice so I use my multi-band distortion trick on reaXcomp to add some bass. This involves setting all time constants to 0 and setting appropriate thresholds, and a gain on the bass band. After loudness balancing, OIH the lufs was a little high, I remembered that I had a small bass EQ cut. Looking at the frequency spectrum, the bass peak is a little over -18. So I apply my multi-bend this distortion trick except with no bass gain. So this is basically moving the bass upwards and making the LUFS a little lower which is good.

In contrast to ReaFIR which is frequency Domain result and frequency Domain operation, ReaXcomp is time Domain operation, but frequency Domain result. So a threshold of negative -10 is in the time domain, means something else in the frequency Domain, so the bass is limited to -18. Which is a bit counterintuitive.


the breakdown from FUTK was edited back in for variation, but when it's played back, it's so loud and  sticks out like a sore thumb. My immediate thought was to use ReaFIR to turn it down. I also tried a traditional EQ. The traditional EQ was better since it sounded more natural. Due to project management issues, some of my changes chan like fixing the pitch of the were lost in later revisions so I copy paste that from a earlier revision.

Reviewing the 2nd transition, I noticed that the image suddenly gets wider when OIH is introduced, so I turn down the side channel for the clip and although the image changes are stepped, it sounds a lot more seamless now. I inserted some Phase limiting to reduce the stereo width to make it more comfortable to listen to on headphones, but I eventually turned it off since surround activity when upmixing to surround is affected.

It thought the breakdown in FUTJ was influenced by bangarang but bangarang was 2012, and this was about 2009.

XXC I was trying to develop internal standard for good base and I had an interim maximum limit of negative 18 on the frequency spectrum. Although readings might be influenced by ifft size. Fat-eyed another song with too much base and to win adjusted to negative 18 l u f s that base Peaks were also at negative 18 so Amisha of good base needs to be relative to the mid frequencies. So the definition of good base needs to be changed

